Supreme Court lets Srinivasan take charge of BCCI

NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday permitted BCCI president-elect N Srinivasan to take charge, but only after setting up an independent panel headed by justice Mukul Mudgal to probe the alleged role of Srinivasan's son-in-law Gurunath Meiyappan and IPL franchises Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals in the spot-fixing and betting scandal. 

A bench of Justices AK Patnaik and JS Khehar asked the inquiry panel, also comprising senior advocates L Nageshwar Rao (currently additional solicitor general) and Niloy Dutta from Assam, to submit a report preferably within four months. 

The bench not only mentioned Meiyappan and Chennai Super Kings - controlled by the board chief -- by name in its order but also widened the panel's ambit to include alleged irregularities in the IPL governing body's decision to cancel the Kochi Tuskers and Pune Warriors franchises. 

The bench explained why it needs to set up an independent panel to look into irregularities on a plea by Cricket Association of Bihar after the Bombay high court quashed a BCCI-constituted two-member inquiry panel, which gave clean chits to both Srinivasan and Meiyappan. However, Mumbai Police later charge-sheeted Meiyappan for his alleged role in the spot-fixing and betting controversy. 

Justices Patnaik and Khehar said, "Considering the fact that Srinivasan has been re-elected as president of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), we need to constitute a probe committee for inquiring into the allegations of betting and spot-fixing allegedly involving Gurunath Meiyappan, who happens to be his son-in-law. 

"Without casting any aspersion on the two retired judges of the Madras high court (who comprised the inquiry panel set up by the BCCI), but considering the fact that Mumbai police has now charge-sheeted Meiyappan, we are of the view that the probe committee comprising members who can function independent of BCCI and its president be constituted to inquire into the allegations." 

It acceded to BCCI's request to permit Srinivasan to take charge of the cricket board. He was unanimously elected president of the board on September 29 but could not take charge because of a September 27 restraint order of the apex court. 

The bench said since it has constituted an independent panel to inquire into the spot-fixing and betting scandal with the mandate to report to the court, there was no harm in permitting Srinivasan to take charge. However, a quick warning followed, "We make it clear that BCCI will not interfere with the probe." 

BCCI will pay Rs 1 lakh each to the three members, including chairman justice Mukul Mudgal, for each working day in addition to looking after their accommodation, transport and food. 

The bench rejected CAB's plea not to permit Srinivasan from taking over as BCCI president till the inquiry panel submitted its report and said, "We do not want to be accused of judicial overreach, a term frequently used against us. We would like to remain within the judicial parameters."

